#summary Overview of the BioScholar Project
#labels Featured

= Introduction =

The goal of the !BioScholar project is to provide software for experimental biomedical scientists that would permit a single scientific worker (at the level of a graduate student or postdoctoral worker) to design, construct and manage a shared knowledge repository for a research group derived from a local store of PDF files.  In addition, the project aims to support the curation of data from scientific experiments conducted within such a research group.   We especially emphasize usability within a laboratory so that this software could provide support to experimental scientists attempting to construct a personalized representation of their own knowledge on a medium scale.

== The Software ==

A more general overview of !BioScholar can be found at the home page [http://www.bioischolar.org].  This site is directed at software distribution and installation issues.  Here you can find

  * A brief DesignOverview
  * InstallationInstructions
  * BuildInstructions

== Distributions ==

We provide software distributions in three forms:
  # An installer for a stand-alone web server using Jetty.  The installer will install a full web server based on Jetty with a simple control panel for starting the !BioScholar system.
  # A set of {{{*.war}}} files suitable for installation in an existing web server such as [http://jetty.codehaus.org/jetty Jetty] or [http://tomcat.apache.org/ Tomcat].
  # The source download for the client and the server.  This will allow you to build the system from the original source files.

== System Requirements ==

  * *Standalone Server:*  The standalone server code requires Java 1.6 or higher to run.  We recommend a machine with 1GB or RAM or more.
  * *War Files:* The war file code requires the use of an existing web server that is able to deploy {{{*.war}}} files.  Some examples are [http://jetty.codehaus.org/jetty/ Jetty] and [http://tomcat.apache.org/ Tomcat].
  * *Client:*  The client requires a web browser with Adobe(R) Flash(R) version 10 or higher.

== Acknowledgements ==

!BioScholar  is funded under [http://www.nih.gov National Institutes of Health (NIH)] grant RO1-GM083871.  Additional work on the software was supported by NIH grant RO1-MH079068-01A2 and a [http://www.michaeljfox.org/ Michael J. Fox Foundation] grant .